this is the most important
information
in the western world
at this moment in history
dare i say it
and this is the evidence right
if you go and deliver leaflets in the uk
broadly speaking and arguably anywhere
in a western city
deal with 5 000 leaflets
most of their people they're going to
get it
aren't bothered right well they're so
like repressed they're not going to
respond
but that one percent of people right 5
000 leaflets maybe 10 000 people look at
it right
30 to 50 people arrive at a talk
these are the people they're going to
change the regime
like these are the low walls
and this is the key thing
four people will be prepared to be
arrested engaging seal
two people will be prepared to go to
prison
so here we are this is the most
important part of this talk go and do
the maps
[Music]
right in most western democracies
if say 3 000 people are arrested
then you'll get legislative change right
in most western democracies if three 400
people go to prison you'll get
legitimate change
[Music]
you have just been presented with the
appealing myth
that all you need to do
is print enough pamphlets
to motivate enough people to get
themselves arrested
to achieve legislative change
in any western democracy and we are even
given
a precise ratio between the number of
pamphlets to be printed
the number of people who go to prison
and you can crunch the numbers and do
the math for just how many million
pamphlets this would take
challenge yourself
think this through
for
a political set of demands an
ideological movement that you have no
sympathy with
whatsoever
in every western country
there are some people who would prefer
to have
sharia law
they're not afraid
to go to prison for it it's a minority
they're a very vocal very well organized
minority in paris in berlin in new york
in california there are
passionate
devout
members of the muslim faith
who would prefer
to be under sharia law or some kind of
muslim majority government
do they believe
that if just 3 000 of them go to prison
it'll bring about their desired
legislative change
if you look today in britain
it's capitalism secularism freedom
liberty
cannot provide the solutions for people
so at a time like this it's actually
quite important for muslims to vote
especially with the sort of rise of
islamophobia
voting for a legislator instead of god
it is the greater evil about you know
that is the greatest evil voting itself
it is the greatest crime afford against
god much worse than uh all of the crimes
of christ
the people who are behind bars without
trial
i don't know where you stand on the
abortion issue i've made many youtube
videos discussing it from many different
angles
do you have any doubt in your mind
that in the united states of america
that in england that in france
there are 3
000 people
in each of those countries
who aren't just willing
to print pamphlets
who are willing to be arrested
who are willing to go to prison
to change the laws
on abortion you know what you can say it
both ways there are people going to jail
to make abortion illegal and there are
people willing to go to jail to make
abortion much more
readily available in all of these
western countries
why is it that they don't believe
that 5 000 pamphlets or 3 000 people in
prison will accomplish that legislative
change and and and and
haven't they already
tried it
aren't they engaged in these sorts of
methods right now is it really a purely
hypothetical question we're asking or is
this something that has in our times
within our lives
already been tried tested pushed to its
limits and utterly debunked this youtube
video
is in part
a political critique of a particular
leader of a particular movement of a
particular ideological tendency in our
times
but as with the vast majority of my
videos it also provides a more general
sort of education
in how to use your mind to destroy
the ready-made meanings that are
presented to you in our society in our
culture on the internet on television on
the radio in the newspapers one of the
most fundamental functions
of the human mind
is to tear apart
complex ideas
into their constituent parts
to see the cracks in the facade
of the appealing image presented to us
by ideologues whether those be
radical dissidents or whether those be
members
of the establishment
[Music]
how many people in the united states of
america are willing to not just print
pamphlets on paper but go to jail to
support the state of israel and how many
are willing to not just print pamphlets
but go to jail because of their
opposition to the state of israel one
way or another whether they be
anti-semitic or pro-palestinian or part
of the left-wing
bds movement there's all kinds of
different voices in that chorus
you think there's any shortage you think
it's fewer than
3 000 people
you see how such an appealing illusion
starts to fall apart
but he doesn't have to convince
you and i
he's only trying to convince
a tiny minority of the audience that he
refers to as lone wolves these are the
people they're going to change the
regime
like these are the lone wolves he knows
that his words only have to make sense
to a tiny
minority of desperate people
to bring about the outcomes
that he's really seeking changing
history changing the world in six months
is all about disruption plus numbers
the situation is you've got your five
people and the standard model that's
happening in the western world at the
moment and it's a little bit speculative
but you know it's a robust robust
potentiality as they say right she's got
your five people your five people
they're going through an extended hunger
strike or they go and paint on a
building or block a motorway and it's
filmed
and they go to prison for a week two
weeks that's step one
and beforehand they make the videos
about it and there's loads of detail in
this point right
and it goes on social media and twenty
thousand people watch it
and then they come out
and it's not like hey i'm gonna go and
have a holiday no they're doing a job
you're in prison you come out you're on
to the job what is the job you're then
on to your tour right
you know mostly if you king used to do
like five
five speeches a day
that's how you change history
you don't go oh i'm off to recover now
it's like
that's how you change history you know
have two days off and then you're out
around the country doing a tour talking
to people
okay
and people go oh my god this person's
gone to prison here's here's a pathway
to actual action i'll do it as well and
they sign up so you go again right eight
weeks later note the time not like four
months later like two weeks right
you go
once you've got those 50 people so 50
people go to prison if 50 people go to
prison in this country right newspaper
people have said it'll be on the front
page it's major right this isn't a
fetishization of prism by the way right
this is causing disruption putting the
authorities in a dilemma and they go
okay
we're going to take this disruption and
give them loads of publicity or we put
money in prison and
we give them lots of publicity it's a
win-win non-violence properly designed
is always a win-win
so there's 50 people going to prison and
you know what happens next right this is
non-linearity they're out proactively
designed civil resistance this is the
heart of this video's proposition right
you've got your five people you've got
your 50 people the 50 people go to
prison they come out they all do 20
meetings each in four weeks that
produces
your massive takeoff right your moment
where you're going to get a thousand
people prepared to block the motorways
block the infrastructure whatever it is
and they're prepared to go to prison we
are now living through the last few
months
of 2021.
do you think
there were fewer than 3 000 people
willing to go to prison
to overturn the election of joe biden
and instead install
donald trump
how many people
on january 6th
in washington dc
were willing to go to prison to change
history with
non-violent methods by this very same
definition of non-violence
and what were the real
outcomes
of their struggle
in the months since then
how many thousand people
have been willing to go to prison
over the vaccination issue
and how well organized and well funded
any of these groups
do you think vegans are as well
organized and well-funded as the crazy
abortion people do you think do you
think they ever will be do you think
ecologists will ever have the sense of
mission and purpose
motivation
that we saw shine so brightly
during the year 2020 in response to
the brutal killing of george floyd
in broad daylight on videotape with
witnesses
do you think
there were fewer
than 3 000 people
willing to go to jail
when they were demanding fundamental
social political legal
change
after the police killed george floyd
just in the year 2020
did anyone even need
to print pamphlets
the response in all these examples it
was so visceral it was so immediate it
was so extreme and it mobilized not
hundreds of people not dozens of people
not thousands we're talking about tens
of thousands or millions of people
rising up around the world
and demanding change and yes
non-violently by this by this very
strange definition of non-violence that
really includes quite a considerable
amount of violence when you think about
it
if we can't say that this ideology has
been discredited if we can't say that
this methodology has proven to us all
that it does not work
now
then when
the pattern that i see
is that one demagogue
after another rises up
preaching non-violence
achieves absolutely none
of his or her outcomes uh none of the
legal legislative political changes that
are demanded
but what they do achieve
is their own personal wealth and fame
and as soon as they are caked out
in the parlance of our times like the
leaders of black lives matter
suddenly they seem a lot less interested
in leading a movement of radical
dissonance suddenly they seem very
highly motivated indeed to become
members of the establishment
instead of wiggling against it
that for me
is the lesson of history and i think if
i were going to foretell the future
six months from now
one year from now five years from now
that's the future i foretell for the
leaders of extinction rebellion such as
roger hallam that you've just seen in
your screen they will go on to the same
kind of comfortable life as the leaders
of people for the ethical treatment of
animals and so many other once radical
movements that have come and gone
of being invited occasionally to appear
on the news as a talking head to give
their you know
esteemed opinion
on the issues of the day
well they've built up for themselves a
comfortable bank account a retirement
fund
and a perpetual position on a tour on a
speaking circuit that never ends what
they have secured for themselves is
money fame power respect and sex
not necessarily in that order
once they've
got that
we see
just how
little radicalism
is left
in them
and you know
the funny thing is
it's you and i
who get to choose
we get to choose our leaders
whereas the leaders of this world
they don't get to choose their followers
roger hallam puts this message out there
and he has no idea
what kind of stupid malevolent people
are going to take those orders and how
they're going to interpret them and how
they're going to apply them
and how many people are going to die
and what the consequences will be
we get to choose our leaders
they
don't get to choose us
and that's why in politics
nobody knows
what will happen
next
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice